# Word Cloud Tweets Processor
This project is intended to mantain a piece of software to process tweets and to create histograms for the frequency of words and word clouds.
Program is receiving all tweets via csv file, it is required that csv file is containing a field called 'text' with the text content of the tweet. 
It is required as well a field in csv called 'sentiment' having an integer as identificator of the cluster as word clouds and histograms will be
created per cluster.

Wiki 📖
The program uses the following structure:

In project folder we can find a data folder, source code and tests.

Data folder is intended to hold data used for the program which basically will be the csv file once is uncompressed, and data generated by the program as the csv file once has been preprocessed.
There is a data/output folder where all files generated as the word clouds and the histograms will be placed.

Src folder is holding the source code of the application. 
It is designed to work having a main module called process_executor.py which will call the different modules to preprocess and analyze the data.

To preprocess the data it is used preprocess_data.py module. This module is under preprocessing package, this package contains all modules used during preprocessing which by the moment are, preprocess_data.py (already mentioned) and preprocess_utils.py. This last module is containg all functions used for preprocessing data.

To analyze and process data it is used analyze_data.py module. This module is under process_data package, this package contains modules used for process and analyze data, which by the moment is executing word clouds and creating pods functionality. This package also contains generate_wc.py which is containing all functions used to analyze and process data.

Utils package is having support_functions.py module which contains several functions used by the modules for preprocessing and analyzing data.
It is containing subpackage File management which is holding the functionalities used to read information from files and to write information to file system. The modules contained are: 
      - data_reader.py: Having all functions used to read files from system
      - data_writer.py: Having all functions used to save files resulted during processing


Getting ready 🚀
You could obtain a copy of the software for your personal use or development purposses cloning the following project: [https://github.com/jenrari/process_wordcloud](https://github.com/jenrari/process_wordcloud.git)
Take a look to installation section to know how to deploy and execute the project

Requisites 🔩
Install python on your computer


Configuration ⚙️
It is needed to configure the module src/process_executor.py in order to set where the csv zipped is placed. Please edit the zip folder variable.
In case you are using a Windows system, please edit the following modules to adapt data folder path to MS system:
- src/utils/file_management/data_reader.py
      Please edit the following variables: data_path, csv_path
- src/utils/file_management/data_writer.py
      Please edit the following variables: data_path, output_path


Installation and run the program 🔧
1. First step is to uncompress the project or clone it into your local machine.
2. Second step is to open a terminal and navigate into the project folder
3. Once you are located into the project folder run the virtual environment for python with the following command for Linux system: source venv/bin/activate
4. Install requirements using the following command: pip -r install requirements.txt
5. Finally run the program invoking the main module process_executor.py:
       python.exe src\process_executor.py


License 📄
This project is under license: GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE - check file LICENSE.md for further details.
